# CFEngine Community Advisory Board

## Background

The Cfengine open source project continues to be used as the backbone of many
large and small scale infrastructures world wide. Given the large numbers of
users, and companies with a stake in the future of the project, the project
leadership is looking to supplement the current governance and contribution
mechanisms with an advisory board, as part of its long-term commitment to
create a more open governance model.

## Purpose

The primary purpose of the CFEngine Community Advisory Board is to advise
CFEngine and the cfengine project core committers team leadership on matters
related to supporting the long-term governance, structure, and roadmap of the
cfengine open source project. The following main areas are included in this
charter:

    * Provide a forum for individuals, users, and companies to discuss the
      issues under the scope listed below.
    * Provide guidance and input to leadership, and where possible, present a
      consistent and consolidated opinion from the broader cfengine community.

The CFEngine Community Advisory Board is not:

    * Intended to serve as an authoritative governance board. The CFEngine
      Community Advisory Board advises, but does not manage the cfengine
      project core committers team leadership.
    * Intended to replace existing mechanisms for community input, governance,
      or contribution.
    * Intended to assume a formal, fiduciary role with respect to the project.
      The CFEngine Community Advisory Board members will not be asked to
      provide funds to the project, assume liabilities with respect to the
      project or their activities, or assume responsibility for enforcing
      either trademarks or CFEngine Community Advisory Board recommendations.

## Scope

The CFEngine Community Advisory Board is expected to provide input and formal
recommendations regarding the following areas:

    * cfengine project long term roadmap
    * cfengine project policies and procedures around maintenance,
      contributions, core team membership and governance.
    * cfengine project policies and procedures around intellectual property,
      trademark, and licensing
    * cfengine project release schedules

## Meetings and Memberships

The CFEngine Community Advisory Board will have up to 7 members.

    * The CFEngine Product Manager: Eystein Stenberg
    * One curator seat
    * 5 seats for the top active contributors
    * No fee or sponsorship is required for membership
    * The membership term will last 12 months. With the exception of the Project
    * Lead, all members can serve a maximum of two consecutive terms

The selection process is intended to be open, transparent, and guided by
objective criteria for membership.

The Curator shall prepare an agenda for and preside over regular meetings of
the CFEngine Community Advisory Board. These meetings shall occur as frequently
as the CFEngine Community Advisory Board determines is in the projectâ€™s best
interest, but no more than quarterly.

A member of the CFEngine Community Advisory Board may be removed by a
resolution of the CFEngine Community Advisory Board supported by more than two
thirds of its membership.

The CFEngine Community Advisory Board may fill any vacancy arising by removal
or resignation by a simple majority vote to fill the remainder of the term of
the vacating member.

The rules of election and membership outlined in this section may be varied by
a resolution of the CFEngine Community Advisory Board supported by more than
two thirds of its voting membership.

All project contributors are welcome to observe at CFEngine Community Advisory
Board meetings.

## Selection Process

### Contributors

Up to five seats will be granted to the top community contributors.
Contributions including merged pull requests, public presentations, and tooling
to support the cfengine ecosystem, over the previous 6 months. These seats will
be reserved for active individual contributors who are not employees of
CFEngine, Inc.

## Operation

The CFEngine Community Advisory Board is authorized to seek advice and counsel
from other interested parties and invited experts as appropriate.

Any outside party wishing to bring an issue before the CFEngine Community
Advisory Board may do so by emailing the CFEngine Community Advisory Board at
communityadvisoryboard@cfengine.com

The CFEngine Community Advisory Board shall provide transparent and timely
reporting (through any mechanism it deems appropriate) to the Cfengine
community at large on all of its activities, subject to the right of any
individual to designate their comments and the ensuing discussion as "in
confidence," in which case the public report shall contain only a note of the
request and an agreed summary (if any) of the substance.

The CFEngine Community Advisory Board is being formed at the discretion of
CFEngine Inc. CFEngine alone may decide to terminate the CFEngine Community
Advisory Board in its sole discretion; provided however, that CFEngine shall
first consult the CFEngine Community Advisory Board and Curator.

The CFEngine Community Advisory Board and its members shall abide by
appropriate antitrust guidelines.

## Open Governance Principles

The CFEngine Community Advisory Board will formulate recommendations in
conjunction with the following open governance principles:

    * Open Contributions: anyone should be able to participate and contribute.
      All bugs and tasks related to the core project code itself will be
      tracked in a public tracker and all of the source code and all of the
      tools needed to build it will be available under an open license
      permitting unrestricted use.
    * Open technical meritocracy: technical merit over pride of authorship.
      Code is contributed for the express purpose of advancing technologies
      relevant to the project, effectively separating technology advancement
      from individual or commercial intent.
    * Open design: Roadmaps are discussed in the open, and designs receive
      input from all committers and contributors.
    * Influence through contribution: organizations and individuals gain
      influence over the project through contribution.
    * Open Licensing: code is licensed under the GPL version 3.

Please help us improve this draft by sending your comments and feedback to
community-advisory-board@cfengine.com.

The source for this document can be found in this repository.
