* February 25th, 2016

** Attendees

- [X] Nick Anderson
- [X] Eystein Stenberg
- [X] Ted Zlatanov
- [X] Mike Svoboda
- [X] Neil Watson
- [X] Bas van der Vlies
- [X] Jonathan Clarke

** Discussion

***  Backporting if macros

We discussed the merits of backporting [[https://github.com/cfengine/documentation/blob/b7c31640e7062cad5baf59fae65050e3799fad61/reference/macros.markdown][macros]] to =3.6=.

The macros allow significantly easier maintenance of policy that is
run on mixed versions. Many people are still running older versions in
production.

Bas and Jonathan strongly support an exception to allow this feature
to be brought into the =3.6.x= series as the patch is quite small (7
lines?). Mike supports backporting if it is well communicated and
provided in a separate package, for example
=cfengine-community-withmacros-3.6.6.rpm=. Ted slightly leans toward
allowing an exception.

Nick and Neil are against bringing features into the stable release.

*** def.json from C

=def.json= was first introduced in =3.7.0= as a way to help simplify
policy framework upgrades by reducing the need to modify the default
policy. The feature was well received by several users however due to
the lateness at which it was parsed it was unusable in many
cases. Because =3.7= is an LTS release and because of the very limited
usefulness due to late parsing, and the wide support for the feature
by the community advisory board members the developers are consider
the move to pre-parsing =def.json= from C a *bug fix*, and it is
eligible for backporting into =3.7.x= after we have more positive
feedback on its functioning in =3.8.1+=.

We discussed how the new =def.json= pre-parsing from C is working
after its release in =3.8.1=. Ted has been using the feature without
issue.

No one else on the board has used the functionality yet.

While helping a community user in =#cfengine= on irc.freenode.net Bas
found an [[https://dev.cfengine.com/issues/7954][issue with failsafe]]. Specifically if =def.json= includes the
standard library it will result in duplicate definition errors. Bas
opened [[https://github.com/cfengine/core/pull/2500][pull request 2500]]. To address =failsafe.cf=. But =update.cf=
needs to be reviewed for potential duplicate bundles as well.

Jonathan is against backporting this to C in =3.7.x= because its a
change in behavior to the C code and there is a risk to release
stability.

*** Releases

We discussed the release time-lines. Jonathan noted that the time
based releases seem to be working well. The predictability of releases
as well as their stability has improved.

For the 3.8 release there was little to no advance warning that the
window to merge pull requests was closing. This resulted in a lot of
frustration for contributors hoping to get their changes into the next
release. Nick noted that the [[https://cfengine.com/company/blog-detail/release-theme-for-cfengine-3-9-logging/][3.9 release announcement]] includes a note
that pull requests should be reviewed and adjustments made by early
April in order to make the release.

pull requests should be reviewed and adjustements made by
                      early april in order to make the release

Neil and Jonathan and Bas noted they would like to see more frequent
patch releases. The primary benefit of these more frequent patch
releases would be for new users. Eystein noted that 6-12 months is
quite typical for enterprise upgrades and doing much more frequent
patch releases has diminishing returns but also noted that the patch
release schedule is flexible for *serious regressions* or *security
issues*.

Bas noted that he uses [[http://builds.cfengine.com/pub/nightly][nightly builds]] to test bug fixes.

Summary: It would be nice if reminders about upcoming freezes to the
code base were sent out

*** Hash collisions

We discussed [[http://dev.cfengine.com/issues/7912][Redmine #7912]] which details how classes can be seen to be
defined when in fact they are not.

A [[https://github.com/cfengine/core/pull/2489][patch to implement murmur3 hashing]] has been proposed.

Board members are curious for an ETA and noted that there has been no
update to the issue in some time. Noted that [[https://github.com/cfengine/core/pull/2331][other pull requests]] also
go for extended periods of time without an update.

This is one of the most important issues that is currently open. We
are working on it, but do not yet have an ETA.

*Update:* Jimis has [[http://dev.cfengine.com/issues/7912#note-25][proposed a fix]] that replaces the Red Black tree
with a hash table and is soliciting feedback. He closed the proposal
to switch to murmur3 noting that it could be a separate improvement.

*** Other
- [[https://www.linkedin.com/in/martingehrke][Martin Gehrke]] will be speaking at [[http://lopsaeast.org/2016/][LOPSA East]] on
  <2016-05-07 Sat>-<2016-05-08 Sun>.
- Would be nice to have a reminder email sent ~ 1 week before each
  advisory board meeting asking for extra topics and giving people a
  chance to review currently open topics.
- Ted Zlatanov suggested a weekly review of outstanding PRs in
  =#cfengine-dev= on irc.freenode.net.
  - Bas, Jonathan and Ted agreed to self initiate this.
